# Predicting daily health using a tracker
This is an exploratory project to discover whether tracker data in the morning can predict the health of people with ME throughout the day, starting with me as a pilot. The predictors consist of six readings from a Garmin Venu 3 that are available upon waking - Sleep Score, resting heart rate, Body Battery, average respiration rate, skin temperature change, and HRV Status. The outcomes comprise: the tracker's estimate of active calories burnt during the rest of the day, a person's self-rating (1-5) of their health over the day, and a binary self-appraisal of whether they are in PEM (a 'crash' phase). The first step is to create deep-learning models predicting the outcomes; then these will be compared with slightly more 'traditional' approaches, such as random forests.

Currently, I have completed the models using deep neural networks. Only one shows promise for further development - using ordinal classification to predict daily ratings. The models are discussed below in order of code quality, as opposed to predictive success.

**PEM classification** Due to data imbalances, SMOTE balancing was used on the training set, and the F1 score was used as the objective. Bayesian tuning of the hyperparameters yielded a simple logistic regression model that predicted both the validation and test sets quite poorly. As a check, I also tried manual tuning and using AUC as the objective for Bayesian tuning, with no improvement.

**Daily ratings classification** In sum, the model is sufficiently suggestive to be 'not useless' - another imperfect source of information, but one that probably should outweigh its components, on which many people with ME currently rely. If this model is developed further, an important question would be whether to create a single model for all people with ME or to continually refine this base model for each individual as they and their tracker produce more data. Finally, this model might be improved by preparing data to reflect gradual changes in baseline metrics. For example, today's resting heart rate per se might be less predictive than the difference between it and the average over the past ten days.

**Daily ratings regression:** The model might appear to be moderately accurate and reliable by some measures, but in practice it simply predicts a value close to the overall average and thus does not reliably register important changes.

**Active calories regression:** Although I spent considerable effort on optimizing the model, the results are unimpressive. It will be interesting to see how well other approaches work.